Um, Paul talking to Timothy about how
to set up leadership in the church.
And he talks about elders or pastors.
He talks about deacons.
And so we're going to talk about
that topic of what does an elders
role and what's a deacon's role.
And, and so today we're going
to talk a lot about information.
Um, we're just talk probably a little
less about application, but we're going
to come back in two weeks as a church.
So those you are part of aspire hope
consistently in two weeks, we're going to
come back and talk about how that applies
to our church, what that looks like in
appointing leaders and what the future of.
Adding that into our church and,
and how that looks together.
And that's the cool part, um, as a
church, as we get to do that together.
Um, and so you'll hear more application
in two weeks and the fact of inspiring
hope, but more today information and a
little bit of what I would say for you
is to gain more of an understanding of
the role of a leader or an elder, but
because we, one number one believer.
The priority of prayer.
We really believe that
prayer makes a difference.
Every week we choose a certain
topic to pray over something.
And one of those is to
pray over leadership.
So I'm going to start us off and pray
today to pray for today's message,
but also just pray for the future
leadership in our church and how we move
in that direction, uh, for our church.
So Lord Jesus, we are praying Lord, um,
and inviting you in because we want you
to be the one that leads and guides us as
a church Lord through this message today,
Lord, through, as we continue to, um, add,
add these things and apply these things
to our life, Lord, I pray that you give us
wisdom to do it, that we do it Lord, for
the ability for the message of the gospel
to be spread, um, and to be able to.
Uh, Lord just lead us well as a church.
And so we pray for your
guidance and your wisdom in him.
And Lord, we just pray
for today's message.
Lord may all of our hearts be
open, uh, Lord to what you want
to teach us and how we can, um,
uh, learn more about that Lord.
And if there's an application
to it on a life as well, Lord,
that we take steps in that.
And so Lord, we just pray
this in your heavenly name.
Amen.
Yeah.
So I've heard this statement before that
everything rises and falls on leadership.
And the more and more that I lead, um, an
organization like this church, the more
and more I realized that is a true fact.
But as I begin to think about leadership,
I actually heard this quote and it
actually made me laugh a little bit.
Um, and this isn't true of us, but it's
maybe true of some businesses that,
um, the key to being a good leader is
keeping the people who hate me away
from those who are still undecided.
I don't think that's true in this church.
But as I was thinking through that, there
are some organizations that literally
are trying to keep people who hate them
away from the ones who are undecided.
That is not who we are as a church,
but I know this leadership is important
in the church, but one of things
I want to talk about just right
up front, before we jump into this
text is just because of leadership.
Doesn't mean it's only up to
leadership to make it successful.
So thinking just in general, as a
church, many times I've been a part of
churches where it's, everything seems
to be on the past or the passengers
to make sure everything happens.
And if something doesn't
happen, then it's on him.
Right.
But the more and more that I learned
about churches, pastors leaders in the
church have a role, an important role
that they're held accountable to above
and beyond most people, but most times.
They're not the only ones that are
doing something that are involved
in the church and the success of the
church it's called the body of Christ.
So every believer that would claim
Christ, that's a part of a local church,
has a responsibility to help in that.
And so the more and more I studied
that, that, that leadership's important.
Yes, everything rises and falls
on leadership in the, in the
fact of important role, but the
pressure isn't only on the leaders.
And so I'm just going to challenge you in
this as a, as a follower of Jesus, myself.
I know that my gifting and in
my calling is to lead, but I
also know is not to lead alone.
Um, and because of that, that's
why you'll hear us talk about in
two weeks, we're going to talk
about leadership in the church.
We're going to talk about
direction of that, and you
guys will be involved in that.
We're going to include people
in that because it's not just.
Me.
And it's really more about Christ and
how Christ has brought us together
to fully work together, to fulfill
the mission that he's called us to.
So I believe the success, the health
and the growth of church is on
each of us fulfilling that role.
And so as we talk about leadership today,
no, that we're going to talk how each one
of us plays an important part in that.
So catching you.
On where we've been as a church
walking through first Timothy first,
Timothy has wrote to Timothy, and this
is Paul suit, true son in the face.
So basically Paul calls
Timothy, basically his own son.
Um, and so he's raised Timothy up,
he's poured into him and he sent
Timothy to this church in Ephesus
to be the pastor to address false.
Um, because there were some teachers
that were teaching things inside the
church, there were leading people
away from the faith of Christ.
And so here's what, what Paul is
challenging Timothy currently he's
saying raise up leaders, appoint
leaders, elders, deacons, to make sure
that we protect the gospel message.
So sort of thinking about this, why
is it important for leaders to lead?
Well, and we talk about today, a
lot of qualifications when we read
this, because the message is that.
Leaders are placed in a position because
the message or the organization in
which they lead, is that important?
So why is leadership important is because
of the message that God has, that he has
sent his son Jesus to die for each one
of us, so that we may have a relationship
with him so that we may experience glory
in heaven with him one day, um, and
that we can help share that with others.
And so as we jump into this text, I want
us to look at it from that standpoint.
So again, first.
Uh, chapter three, starting in verse
one, and we'll read through verse 13.
It says this, it says
this sane is trustworthy.
If anyone aspires to be an
overseer, he desires a noble.
And overseer, therefore
must be above reproach.
The husband of one wife,
self-controlled sensible, respectable,
hospitable, able to teach.
Non-accessible not an excessive
drinker, not a bully, but
gentle, not quarrelsome, but not.
He must manage his household hold
completely and have his children
under control with all dignity.
And if anyone does not know how
to manage his own household, how
will he take care of God's church?
He must not be a new convert or he must,
or he might become conceited and incur
the same kind of nation as the devil.
Furthermore, he must have a good
reputation among the outsiders so that it
is not fall into disgrace and the devil.
And then he says, deacons, likewise
should be worthy of respect, not
hypocritical, not drinking a lot of wine,
not greedy for money, holding the mystery
of the faith with clear conscience.
They must also be tested first if
they approved to be blameless and then
they can serve as deacons wives too.
Must be worthy of respect, not slanderous.
Self-controlled faithful in everything.
Deacons are to be husbands of
one wife managing their children,
their own households company.
For those who have served well as
deacons acquire a good standing
for themselves and great boldness
in the faith that is in Christ.
Jesus, I don't know about you
all, but I remember the first
time reading this and going, man,
I don't know if I ever want be.
And the church.
So pray for your leaders, pray
for me, but what I would say with
this, and there's a reason behind
this, um, that there's, there's a
reason behind that qualifications.
There's actually 16 of them that
we have for elders or pastors.
And then there's several
four deacons as well.
So we're just gonna walk
through this verse by verse.
Talk about what each one of these means,
um, and answer some of these questions.
So first thing you see here
is he talks about an overseer.
And so I want to kind of clarify this.
If you study in the
Bible, there's the word?
Overseer, Bishop, pastor elder.
Th they're responsible for
the overseen of the church.
And so they're listed in those titles
and the fact of different roles.
And so I think of it this way
and I started just trying to
process through this a little bit.
I am a father of.
Uh, son, I'm a brother, I'm an uncle.
Right.
And I function in a different way
to each one of those roles, very
similar to those titles function, a
leader functions in different roles.
And so just to kind of you an experience,
we talk about the word elder, right?
And so an elder talks about someone
who is mature with spiritual
wisdom and experience, right.
And that's where you hear
this thing, don't be a new.
We hear the word pastor, right.
Is pastors known as a shepherd, the one
who leads and cares for local believers.
Right.
And so something else we see, even in
Ephesians chapter four, verse 12, it
says that their role leaders is to equip
the saints for the work of the ministry
and to build up the body of Christ.
So there's different titles.
And different roles with under that title.
But in essence, they're there to lead
the direction spiritually for the church.
Um, if you want even more
information about this, I'll
send you to Titus chapter one.
Um, and you'll hear more and
more about this, but we're not
gonna address that specifically.
But you see this term that it says
in order to be qualified, right?
These pastors had to be qualified.
Um, they had to meet certain
expectations to fulfill the position.
And, uh, let me ask this.
I'm, I'm a person that loves asking
questions to be kinda engage you guys
to even think through this with me.
Why do you think that there's
qualifications for a leader in the church?
What's the value?
What's important about it?
What Jonas.
Right.
They may not know enough about the
gospel, so they may actually lead
people astray from the gospel.
Right?
So to have qualifications is to say, Hey,
in order to fulfill this role effectively
to keep the message of the gospel pure, we
need to have people that know the message.
Well, to have the character
to back up that message.
So that's really good.
I appreciate you, um, uh,
answering that question.
So we see these 16 qualifications, again,
that a pastor or an elder must fulfill.
And as I begin to think about these
qualifications, it's interesting.
Each one of them.
Should come out of an overflow
of a relationship with.
And I say, this is so important because
so many times with pastors, it's not
like you're aspiring to be something
different than just a, really a, what I
would say is a true follower of Christ
at the high levels and character.
And so a person can aspire to
be an elder by just following
Jesus and doing what he says.
And the more that you do that,
and the more that you see these
things, um, follow through.
And so, uh, I think it's important
to not necessarily see this as
something that they should attend.
Right.
So we look at these qualifications
as I'm going to get better at these
so that I can attain this position.
My encouragement for most pastors that
would attain to be, cause he says this,
this is a worthy or noble work that she
should attain to be a follower of Jesus.
And after you see yourself begin to
follow that direction, the spirit
of God begins to connect these
characteristics with the call to a pastor.
And I'll talk a little bit more about
that as well, but I think it's important
again, we're talking about this leadership
is why to pastors, um, leaders had these
16 qualifications, I believe it's because
they set the example of how to live so
that believers can have a model of how.
Desires us to live.
So not saying that your pastor's perfect.
So, you know, I'm not perfect, but I
desire to meet these qualifications
because I want to set the example of what
God is calling us to, to do and following.
And so in that I get to model it.
Not only preach it, but model it as
a pastor and most pastors do as well.
So let's walk through this.
There's a lot of qualifications, right?
So the first one we see
here is above reproach.
So above reproach is blameless.
And basically it's saying this, nothing
that Satan or others could hold against
you or attack you about your character.
Again, when we talk
about this is perfection.
No, but it's probably attaining
or pursuing above approach life.
I'm a husband of one wife, most believers.
You begin to study about this.
He's talking about men who are
not divorced or remarried unless
the spouse has passed away.
This is also talking about in
the, in the church, you hear
a lot about multiple wives.
This is also saying, Hey,
it's not multiple wives.
And I always tell people this,
if you're trying to have multiple
wives, what headache are you
trying to add to your life?
No offense.
I love my wife, but I want one want one.
So maybe it's just him saying, Hey,
it's important to just have one.
So, you know, I usually get bad
jokes and it's enough that my wife's
not in here to tell me to stop.
So I'll just keep going.
He goes on and he says this, he
says to be self-controlled as well.
And it's talking about restraint,
exercised over one's impulses
and emotions and desires.
And so think about this.
I think you would want your leaders to
be self-controlled in their emotions.
Why I've been a pastor long enough
to know this, you will be tested.
Um, and again, your character
truly shows through, um, when
you are tested, um, within.
We see the word sensible, the
word sensible is translated,
sober and sound mind.
Right?
And when you think of sober, you're
thinking not being influenced by
someone, something or someone.
And so you have a sound mind to
be able to approach situations.
He uses the word respectable,
which translates to be orderly,
organized in his thinking, right?
Or even the word model.
He talks about being hospitable, which
is generous and welcoming to guests or
strangers he's to be able to teach, which
means he spends time studying the word and
can teach it correctly and accordingly.
And so before I go on, does
anybody start filling this?
Being a lot of stuff, an
expectation to attain?
I do too.
And I'm the one that's supposed to be
attaining these things as a pastor.
Um, and so I always tell
people this pray for your path.
Encourage your pastor.
If you want to see him successful
and the church successful in leaders.
Pray for him and the other
leaders in the church as well.
He goes on in verse three and he talks
about not to be an excessive drinker.
So one of the things we've talked
about as a church is this idea
behind alcohol is alcohol bad will.
In essence, I'll call
it itself is not bad.
Drunkenness is bad, but for leaders,
when you think about this, there's.
The example and what this isn't.
So he says not to be an excessive drinker.
Well, what does that mean?
It's honestly, it's saying why
don't play the line of what
drunkenness is and what isn't.
And so, as a pastor, they should set the
tone of like, don't try to play the line
of what it is between drunkenness and not.
And many times in this day, whenever
Paul's talking about alcohol, Wine
was actually added to the water
to make it a little bit healthier.
And so you would even hear like,
when he's talking about this,
it's like, don't go excessive in
adding that to your water as well.
Why so that you have a sound mind, right?
And so he continues to talk about this.
He says, to not be a bully, right.
To not look for fights, not trying
to cause arguments to be gentle.
He says to be patient listening to people,
to be fair, he says not to be quarrelsome,
which pastors must be peacemakers.
Right.
And not troublemakers.
He talks about this other one, he
says greedy, and I'm going through
these pretty quickly, but I think
they're, they're pretty logical
as I'm giving an explanation of
this, he says not to be greedy.
Why would a pastor not
need to be greeting?
Well, two, two reasons number.
If a pastor's greedy, there's a good
chance that he's influenced by money.
So if there's certain members in
the church, they get more money.
He's probably going to listen to them more
and do what they want because it's money
or what you might find with the pastor
is people are trying to pay him more.
How we'll pay you so much,
if you'll do what we say.
Right.
So greedy means you're not
going to be so focused on money
that you'll be influenced.
Negatively.
Right.
And so you think about pastors in this,
and so, you know, it's interesting.
I, uh, basically grew up poor and then
whenever I say poor or not poor, my
parents took amazing care of me very
well, but I just want to make more
money than what we had grown up with.
So I actually got really good.
And was like trying to get an
education so I can make a ton of money.
And it was funny how the Lord
broke my heart and said, ha, you
won't ever make a lot of money.
You're going to go be a pastor.
And I said, okay, that sounds great.
And so what I say with that is
greediness is something that even
for pastors, they fight with, right.
They battle with, but he says
to not be greedy so that you're
not influenced and drawn away.
Um, some here's the other side of
it who knows prosperity gospel.
There's also the flip side.
Sometimes pastors will use.
To try to get rich again.
That's another way he's
saying don't be greeting.
Um, it continues on a
verses four and five.
I want to read these specifically.
He says he must manage his own household
competently, having his children
under control with all dignity.
And if anyone does not know how
to manage his own household, how
will he take care of God's church?
So basically what he's saying
about the qualifications of
a pastor is that he should.
Uh, a godly family, right?
This does not mean that the pastor has
to have a family, but if he does, it's
saying that a man's own children cannot.
Uh, basically, if his man's own
children can not obey him and respect
him, then his church will likely
not respect nobody's children.
And I'll say this, that means this, that
the pastor needs to prioritize his family.
Um, you'll see.
One of the things that you'll see with
pastors at times is they'll sacrifice
their family for the sake of the.
Right.
For the sake of success of the
ministry, pastors need to prioritize
their family because if they can't
manage their own household, how can
they manage to manage the church?
And so it doesn't mean this.
I mean, I'll just let you
know my kids aren't perfect.
Right.
But I'll, I'll say this, that
we're continuing to work through
that they're not going to be ones
that don't respect us as parents.
And then I expect to be able
to lead a church in that.
So he continues on here and he
says this in verse six, that
there to not be a new believer.
So I want to ask this question.
Why, why shouldn't you be a new believer
in leadership, in anything, a new,
a new person out of college, going
into a major leadership position?
Why
no experience, right?
You're you're so new.
There's odds are you, you have no clue
and how to handle certain situations.
So a new believer and he even
talks about this in this verse.
I'm gonna look at it here in.
I says he must not be a new convert
or he might become conceited and
incur the same condemnation as the
devil, which means he may be pulled
away, teaching false things persuaded.
And so a new believer should give
himself time to study, right.
And learn before he's
placed in that position.
And then he goes into verse seven
and that he should have a good
testimony outside of the church.
Think about this.
I don't have a good
Testament, which means this.
If you don't have a good reputation
outside the church, how can
you lead a church to reach the
people outside your church?
So most of these things seem like.
And what did we see with the pastor
as that they need to have a good
reputation outside the church.
They need to have all these
characteristics, but I'll tell you this.
I had to take a deep breath after I
studied this portion of the text and
I had to go, man, that's a lot of
expectations on me and other pastors
in your community, and maybe other
churches that you go to the pastors,
there that's a lot of expectations, but
then I started thinking through this,
man, if I prioritize my relationship
with Jesus, These are things that should
come out of the overflow of my life.
These aren't standards,
I'm trying to attain.
They just become who I am.
And what I would also say with this
is if you have a pastor that's not
meeting every one of these expectations,
number one, give them grace.
Number two, be part of the solution
rather than being critical.
That's just from my perspective,
I'd rather be encouraged to change.
Then to have somebody talking about
me behind my back and calling me out
behind my back and not approaching
me and saying, Hey, I love you, but
there's an area of your character.
That's just not godly.
And here's what I would say.
We should be doing that
amongst believers as well.
If we see a character in another
one of a believer in our church
to say, Hey, there's not a godly
character that we address it together.
So just my challenge to you
is that it's important, right?
Not only to hold pastors to this, but
us to follow their example in this.
Um, and again, pastors set this
example to try to challenge
the church, to lead it out.
I want to share just a few
things with your leaders lead
and set the example many times.
It's not even in perfection, but
it's in pursuit of these things,
but all of these things lived out
in the life of pastor helps him
avoid being persuaded by the enemy.
Paul is teaching Timothy
to address false teaching.
So he is saying in this, if you'll appoint
leaders that have these characteristics,
they will not be persuaded by the
enemy to teach false teachings.
Right.
And being a hypocrite with
what they're saying right.
And saying one thing to do in another.
And he talks about it being a noble work,
not to be, take a grain of for right.
And that's why a pastor
should be appointed slowly.
But I would also say this
character determines position.
If a person aspires for a
position, it should be out of the
overflow of their faith, right?
The relationship with Christ, rather
than them attaining the position by just
trying to attain those characteristics,
it's a different, I'm telling you, it's
a different perspective and this is why
leadership should be taken serious when
it comes to the church and hope that.
Right.
So let's look at the
deacon side of things.
And again, today I told you information
a little bit more than anything.
So we see that qualifications
for leaders in the.
All these things that they're
held to a standard so that they
can set the example and then lead
a church to follow that example.
Again, they're pointing back to Christ as
well, but in order for pastors to do that,
they have other leaders in the church.
And you'll hear this back in the
old or not the old Testament, but
in the new Testament of deacons.
Right.
And so what are deacons?
Deacons are servant leaders.
There are people who typically serve
alongside the pastor to do some of the
other ministry work so that pastors
can minister in the word and prayer
consistently so that they can't focus
on the truth so that they can prevent
false teaching to come in so that they
can raise up leaders and equip the
saints for the work of the ministry.
So deacons play an important role.
So something we'll talk about in
two weeks does inspiring hope have.
Technically with the title, no future.
Yes.
Do some of our people in our church,
on our leadership team already
really functioned in that faction.
Absolutely doesn't mean that they're
not important doesn't mean because they
don't have a title of deacon doesn't
mean they're not important, but I would
say this, it takes a group of people
so that the church can be successful
in the mission that God's called.
So that we can, again, reach people,
help them experience the hope of
the gospel and protect the message.
Again, the truth of the message in this.
So deacon is an important role, and I
want to read this text out of acts to
kind of talk about the important role.
So acts chapter six, if you want
to pull over there, you can, but
we also will have it on the screen.
Um, acts chapter six is where you'll start
hearing where the apostles appointed.
Deacons.
And it was so cool.
I actually was reading over this text
with Joe and Kristin, cause I meet with
them on Tuesday nights and do a little
bit of a discipleship meeting with them.
And we got on this text and it was so cool
because we got to talk about this when we
were coming to talk about it this Sunday.
So it says this and this first
seven verses speaking of deacons
as this, in those days of the
disciples were increasing in.
There arose a complaint by the
Hellenistic Jews against the Hebrew
Anik Jews that their widows were being
overlooked in the daily distribution.
Again, they were getting food because
there were widows, they were being taken
care of, but it says the 12 summit.
And so this is the 12 apostles at that
time, after they had followed Jesus,
it says they summoned the 12 and the
whole company of disciples and said it
would not be right for us to give up
preaching of the word to wait on tables.
Not because they were above
it, just so you know, pastors
are not above washing floors.
I don't mind cleaning bathrooms.
I don't mind serving people.
And I think every pastor should do that.
So these guys aren't saying we're
above that, but what they're saying is
in our role, the most important thing
is preaching of the word is prayer.
And so he continues to go on here and he
says, brothers and sisters select from
among you seven men of good reputation
full of the spirit and of wisdom who can
appoint this duty, but we will devote
ourselves to prayer and the ministry of.
And this proposal pleased
the whole company.
And so they chose Steve and
Amanda full of faith, the holy
spirit and Philip, um, pro chorus.
These are always great
names named Kaurna tymone.
I said to Mona Puma, but it's not
pimp poom, but it's par minibus,
Nicholas, and the convert from Antioch.
And they had them stand before
the apostles who prayed and
laid their hands on them.
And so this is my favorite part
when they appointed deacons
to help them serve the church.
It says in verse seven.
So the word of God spread and the
disciples in Jerusalem increased in
number and the group grew larger and a
priest who became obedient to the faith
think about this because leadership is
shared in the church because it's not
all only on the pastors and the leaders
so that the pastors and leaders can set
the example through ministry and prayer.
So through the word and prayer,
if they can focus more time on
that, that protects the church.
Right from false teachers
being able to lead effectively.
And as we talk about an Ephesians four
to equip the saints for the work, the
ministry, this allows deacons who with
their gifting can go and serve the
church and meet the needs in the church.
And it takes all of us and something
we're going to get to talk about
again in two weeks and even more so
is it's more than just pastors and
deacons that have a responsibility
to church to help fulfill its cause.
Excuse me, to fill the
mission in the church.
So deacons are very, very important.
So I wanted to share all that with
you to see how important that is,
but I want to talk about their
qualifications pretty quick here.
So even though deacons are not
given the same authority as elders,
they have qualifications again,
an expectation to set an example.
So it says this, it says deacons
must be worthy of respect,
talks about in verse eight.
So what is worthy of respect?
Great character worth.
One who takes this position
serious and is responsible.
He says, he's not hypocritical.
And I I'm telling you, you hear a lot of
things about people should be something,
but I think it's important to hear that
they should not be something light.
So these are things where it's like, don't
be this person, don't be this person.
Um, and I think more of us probably
need to hear that at times.
Um, but he says not to be hypocritical.
Um, he is not a gossiper.
Doesn't do one thing
and say another, right.
He can be.
It uses here as well for Deakins
not to drink a lot of wine, again,
the same thing for the pastors,
not to be greedy for money.
Most people, if you know,
deacons and a church, typically
deacons count the offering.
But in this instance they
were dispersing food.
They most likely would have been over
some form of disbursement of money.
And because of that, they
couldn't be greeted with.
Because they might be tempted to
still money or to change something.
Um, that would be, um,
if they were gradient.
So this is why it's important
for them to have this, to have
a solid, biblical understand.
This is what verse nine says.
I want to read verse nine.
I've got to go back to my text.
It says this in verse nine, it says I'm
holding the mystery of the faith with a
clear conscience, with a clear conscience.
And so having that solid biblical
understanding of the truth of the gospel
so that whenever they are living it
out, they have a clear understanding and
whenever they are modeling it as well.
So verse 10 talks about that they
should be tested and prove themselves.
Is anybody ever been to a deacon
ordination ordination typically?
What will happen at some point, his
deacons will be somewhat tested, right?
They'll bring him before the church
and they'll say, Hey, you know,
we're presenting this person as a
deacon in the next couple weeks.
If you have anything against them, if
there's anything that we should know of,
that this person should become a deacon.
Let us know.
Typically what that's saying is we've
been watching him for a while and he
meets the qualifications, but we're
going to give everybody an opportunity.
If there's a reason why
this person wouldn't have.
Meet that expectation.
So they're tested for a time to
see if they could prove themselves
to be worthy of the position.
And I always think of this.
This is why it's important
with these certain roles.
Not to just rush people into leadership
because you need them, but that
you should test them for a time.
Then it get jumps into verses 11 and 12.
And this is where it includes
the wives of deacons.
It says wives too.
Must be worthy of respect, not slanderous,
or self-controlled faithful in.
So let's talk about the
whys for a second here.
It's interesting.
When you begin to study this, and
I'm not going to jump off into
this too much, but it talks about
the qualifications of an elder.
You hear about the family, but you
don't hear much about the wife,
but you hear more in this instance
about the wife with the deacon.
I believe Paul's kind
of setting up this idea.
And again, as I begin to study
about this, that the idea
behind the importance of deacon.
With their wife, if they have one
to serve together in this role.
Yes.
Men lead.
And we talked about this
a couple of weeks ago.
Men set the example in the home men set
the example in the church, but women
are an important role in the church.
And obviously as a deacon plays
such an important role, why does
her character need to be well?
Because she has an
important role in model.
What following Jesus and also helping
serve the church in this role.
So we also, you know, again, that's
just something, I think that's important
as he's talking about women and he
says this, he says that if it's a
deacon of a wife should be worthy
of respect and great character worth
imitating, just like her husband, not
slanderous making false statements
or a gossiper self-controlled right.
Restraint exercise over her
impulses, emotions and desires.
And then faithful and everything.
And that's a big statement, but
faithful, meaning just remaining
loyal and steadfast in her position.
Um, then it comes back to the husbands
again in verse 12, where it talks
about husbands of one wife, again,
similar to the pastors as well.
We talked about that.
And then the last verse in verse
13, he talks about serving well,
and I want to talk about that.
He says for those who have served well
as deacons acquire a good standing
for themselves and great boldness
in the faith that is in Christ.
Jesus.
Think about this, if a deacon serves well
in his role, he's grown up in his face.
He is basically setting a great
example for those around him.
He's modeling Christ and many believed
that as even if you go back to acts
chapter six, you'll see Stephen who was
a deacon actually very quickly after
was out preaching the gospel boldly.
He ended up dying for his faith.
And so, because he was bold in his
position and he was confident in his
position and he did it well, he not only
set an example, but he actually even rose.
Uh, what I would say, a leadership
position and being able to be
more effective for the gospel.
And so coming back to this deacons play
an important role in the church, right?
To allow pastors to minister in the word
and prayer so that they can spiritually
address the false teaching and equip
saints for the work of the ministry,
rather than just doing it all themselves.
Lots of information.
I didn't want to go any more deeper
because you guys are probably like done
with the 16 qualifications for pastors.
And I don't even know
how many for deacons.
Why is it important?
I want you, I want you
to ask this question.
Why is it important for us to know
as a church, the, the qualifications
for elders and pastors, and also for
deacons, I'm going to ask that question.
Why do you think it's important
for you, for us the church to
know the qualifications for
elders and pastors and deacons?
Why is it.
Absolutely.
Yeah, that's good.
What else?
Countability?
That's good.
There's two.
Let's keep going.
It's good.
It's another one.
Let's keep going.
How to appoint them.
See, I think that's another good one,
because again, the church we're talking
about points elders, and he's talking to
Timothy, but the church is a part of this.
And so you guys know, we talk
about it in the future about
appointing elders and deacons.
You know what characteristics to go to,
if you're hearing to say, Hey, so-and-so
you guys can pull, open your Bible
and literally come back to here now.
Cause you've heard it and go, you know,
I want to know, or here's another one
I'm gonna, I'm gonna bring this one up.
I'm praying.
God's stirring the hearts of
some of our people in our church.
They're thinking, you know, I think God
may be calling me to be an elder pastor.
I think God may be calling
me to be a deacon in the.
And I want you to be thinking,
man, it does my life reflect this.
Maybe God's drawn you to it and
your life doesn't reflect it.
And what, what's your next step
in that your next step could be?
I mean, I'm just going to begin to pour
myself into my relationship with Jesus
as these characteristics come through.
So I think there's lots of reasons
specifically here for us as we look
and see why it was so important.
Leadership is important to make
sure that the message of the gospel.
Is taken well care of that.
It is not twisted, right?
It is so that the pastors
can focus on the word.
And so before we move on, I'm
going to kind of close today.
I want to ask this question.
Many of you have been in churches
with deacons before, right?
Anybody been in church with deacons.
What do deacons typically
do in your church?
I know it's different from each church,
but I want to ask that question.
What did he can stipulate
do in your church
by answering you're actually
just helping us out.
I want to know.
Okay.
Visit the sick, okay.
Minister, the widow's great.
Anybody else?
Maybe you don't have experience
with Deakins and that's fine.
I think at each church it can be
a little bit different, right?
For some it's usually pretty consistent.
They help with communion.
They usually help with the offering.
They're going to usually
help with benevolence or the
widows and things like that.
And that's typically some roles
you'll see the deacons play.
Uh, and the Bible as well, but I believe
deacons can actually play a, even more
considerable role because if you look
at that, they're continually removing
the burdens that are on the pastor.
That's outside of the word and prayer
so that the pastors can focus on that.
Um, and so that's something that I
think each church has to work together
to define the specific role and
need for the deacon in the church.
So.
As we kind of conclude today and
talk about like, what, what is our
take-homes, what does this mean to us?
I know we have so many guests
and I'm hoping that some of this
information was good for you.
Um, again, focusing more on information
than application today, and we're going
to continue to talk more about that in
a couple of weeks specifically, we'll
go, I think a little bit deeper for each
one of us that will, this may draw out
a little bit more, um, for each one.
But what I would say is our take
home for each one of us today.
And I think we should not miss this number
one, seeing the need for leadership.
Yes.
Leadership in the church is important,
but I want to mention this thing if it's
so important to set up leadership in the
church, it's because the, the message
that we have as a church is so important
to protect the message of the gospel.
And if you've been.
Having your eyes open at all.
You know, that message gets twisted
over time and over time and over time.
Why, why do you believe the
message of the gospel gets twisted
people's ideas?
So they're appointing leaders that are
probably not meeting the qualifications
that are not keeping the gospel
message pure because they are getting
more distracted with everything
outside of the message of the word.
I mean, this is simple as that, right?
I mean, thing, I always say this it's
just on the church go to any company
organization that ends up tanking.
They appointed the wrong leader
because that leader did not make
the main thing, the main thing, the
right thing, the right thing, the
gospel needs to be the main thing.
Jesus needs to be the main thing.
I would say that it is important.
This message is so important.
So today I hope that he's one
of us sees the important role.
Each leader plays in the church to protect
the message of the gospel and to make
sure that the word is preached and taught.
Truthfully, number two is
important for us to know the
expectations of leaders, right?
And the not only in the importance in
the church, but I would even say for
you to pray for them specifically, like
Laura said, number one for some in this
room, and this is the third one I want.
For some in this room to ask.
Could God be calling me to that
position or that role in the future.
And maybe it's not now, but
it may be in the future.
And so you're saying, Hey, I want to be
a part of, if you think about servant
leader, removing some of the burdens
from the pastor men, I want to aspire
to be, and it's a noble work to be
a deacon, or man, God may be calling
me because these characteristics are
starting to become part of my life.
And I want to be a part of
leading the church spiritually
through the word and prayer.
So I hope that the Lord may be
drawing some of you to ask that
question to take a next step in that.
And then for the last is, uh, to again,
know that the, the, again, the, the
function of the church and its success is
not only on these two roles in the church.
And I know we didn't talk much about
it today, but I mentioned it if all the
pressures on me and our future deacons, or
whoever's maybe leading that role without
a title that cannot be the only people
that are bearing this weight, because
that's not what God's called us to.
And that's why I want to talk more and
more as a church going forward as the
role of the church outside of those two
positions, we have an important role.
Yes.
But it says that we are to
equip the saints believers for
the work of the ministry, which
means all of us have a gift.
And I want to talk more about what gifts
are and how we apply them and how we
get involved in fulfilling the mission
that God has called us all to share the
message of the gospel with others so that
they can experience the hope of Jesus.
So this message was so important that they
needed to appoint leaders to protect it.
So I want to end with that.
There may be people in this room that
are saying, what are you talking about?
What message God's never changed my life.
Well, I'll tell you this.
There's a group of people in here in
this room that God has so transformed
that we come not only every week,
but every day to live our faith
out, because God is so changed.
Through his son, Jesus, because we
were broken because apart from God
sickness and Jesus, we would have never
been saved and had an opportunity to
spend a heaven in eternity, in heaven.
But also we would also not
be able to remove the burdens
that we have in our life.
I'm telling you this, apart from
Christ, I'm falling short, every single.
And it is difficult in this world
going forward, guys, it's just seems
like it's only getting more difficult
and I am so thankful that today I
have Christ that has changed my life.
And given me hope, gives me grace
and mercy and love every day.
And that is the message that
each one of us come every week
to celebrate, learn more, about
to go out and share with others.
So, if you don't know Christ, if you've
never given your life to Christ, if you
don't even know what it means to follow
Jesus, that could be your next step.
This message that leaders are
here appointed to protect.
That may be something that
you need to experience today.
So if you've never given your
life to Jesus, I would love for
you to talk to me after service.
Whenever we conclude service, you come
find me and say, Hey, I have questions.
It may not be where you're ready
to give your life to Christ, but
it may be just another question
that gets you closer to that.
My challenges today do not leave before.
You answer those questions before
you figure out why do they even
care so much to meet every week to
talk about the gospel about Jesus.
And I hope to be able to share with you
the life change that God has changed
my life and many people in this church.
And the reason why we continue
every week towards that path.
So this leadership stuff may not
mean much to you, but I pray to
that message that we are trying to
protect as leaders means a lot to you.
So as we conclude today and take
time of invitation, I want him to
just mention this time of invitation.
I explained it every week because
I do not want people to miss
this invitation is for everybody.
It's a simple statement, meaning
we're inviting you to ask God,
what has he taught you today?
What has he brought up in your.
That you need to take a next
step in for some of you.
That's the next step in your faith
to know Jesus for some of you that
may be to take a next step in baptism
for some of you that could be a next
step in leadership for some of you.
That could be a next step and just
spending time with Jesus every day,
because you haven't been doing that.
I don't know what it is, but I know this.
I know God is putting on the
hearts of each one of you.
What that should be so invitations
a time to take time and say,
God, 'cause I'll tell you this.
As soon as we get down here today,
you're going to rush out the
store to the next test you had.
This is the moment to sit
there still and say, God.
Don't miss that opportunity
to say, God, here I am.
What is it that I need
to take a next step in?
And I pray that he reveals that to you.
And if you have questions, you
want to talk with me during this
time of invitation, I will be in
the back because I would love to
talk to you about that as well.
So let's pray, Lord Jesus.
We're so thankful for you, Lord.
We're so thankful for your word, even
though today, Lord is so much information
about how Lord leaders should be qualified
for the position in which they have.
Lord, I pray.
Um, that one, it taught us something.
Lord, I pray that, um, if it didn't
teach us anything, because it maybe just
confused us a little bit, Lord, I pray
that you begin to unconfuse us Lord and
help us understand, um, their roles.
Lord, I also just pray that,
that we all don't miss this one.
Important statement and the whole
process, the everything we do is
to point people back to you because
you are the one that gives hope.
You're the one that gives grace and
mercy and forgiveness of our sins.
You're the one that will walk through
us in the difficult times and in the
great times, you're the one that will
provide for us, or you're the one
that gives us a family and friends,
Lord to support us and our daily walk.
Or you're the one that changes our life.
And that message is so important
that you want to appoint leaders who
have the correct character to keep
that message pure and truthful so
that other people can experience it.
So, Lord, I pray if there's a
person in this room, Lord, that
didn't know that before Lord, I pray
that they walk out of here today.
And if they go back to another church
that they attend, Lord, they'll
appreciate their pastor or their leader
even more because of that message
and that characteristics that alert,
learned that they're held to as a.
Lord.
I pray that if there's a person that's
room, Lord, that aspires to be a
leader or that you begin to work up
in their heart to follow you more,
to meet those, uh, characteristics,
Lord, and begin to discuss that
with me, Lord and taking those next
steps in that leadership position.
But Lord, honestly, in the end, I want
all of us to just take a next step in
our faith, whatever it is to know you,
to be baptized, to take a step of faith
that just walking daily with you and the.
To go in and telling
somebody about it today.
Whenever they, they leave here about
who you are, Lord it challenges
all to take that next step, because
on the other side of that next
step is a person waiting for us.
Lord, let us not leave
them waiting anymore.
Let us say yes to you.
We pray this in your hemline name.
Amen.